File: BANA US-Canada Advanced BRF Example.brf 
Page width: 40 cells
Page length: 25 lines
Braille Pages:
Contracted 18
Uncontracted 19
Line spacing: single
Encoding: USA ASCII
Braille code: Unified English Braille contracted (UEB grade 2)

I originally transcribed this in contracted braille because that is how a document like this would typically be done. 
I've also provided an uncontracted version since all of the other files have been submitted in uncontracted braille (I obviously missed or forgot something!) 

Notes:
1. This file was transcribed according to The Rules of Unified English Braille 2nd Edition 2013, Guidelines for Technical Material 2014 and Braille Formats: Principles of Print-To-Braille Transcription 2016.
 
2. In the US and Canada, there are three basic styles of heading: h1 (centred), h2 (cell-5) and h3 (cell-7).
An h4 can be shown as a lead-in to a paragraph, and heading levels can be adjusted as needed.
In the "Here are a bunch of headings" section on print page 9 I adjusted the heading levels: I made the section heading an h1 the h3 an h2, etc. To  show an h4 I left the italics and treated it as a lead-in to a paragraph. I did the same to show an h5, which has no typeform. I used it as the lead-in to the paragraph that followed.

3. A complex document would normally have a Special Symbols page to advise the reader of technical symbols with which they may be unfamiliar. In this sample I inserted Transcriber's Notes at the beginning of sections where lesser-known symbols occurred.
I used transcriber-defined symbols for the highlighted text on print page 8. 
The TN preceding the letter was not  required in the uncontracted version because none of the print numbered lines began partway through a braille line.
 
4. Major sections of text (such as the Index) would often begin a new braille page, but I did not do so in this file because it is only a few pages long.

5. Although Word treated the endnote reference as a Roman numeral i, Duxbury treated it as Arabic 1 and this is how I left it.

6. Standard paper sizes are 11.5x11 and 8.5x11. While this is an agency decision, 11.5x11 tends to be the default and this is why it was used for this transcription.  
